### (a)

Given an instance of AMERICAN-HAM-CYCLE and a solution (a cycle) to the problem, we need to check whether such solution is indeed an AMERICAN-HAM. This can be done in several steps:

1) check whether the cycle visits each vertex in G exactly once;
2) check whether the cycle is indeed a cycle in G by traversing the cycle on G;
3) use a counter to count the number of visited edges and see whether the color of the i-th edge satisfies the requirement.

The above verification can be finished in $O(n)$, since there is at most $n-1$ edges of the cycle, where $n$ is the number of vertices in $G$.

### (b)

As for the reduction from an NP-Complete problem, the standard HAMILTONIAN-CYCLE problem. Consider an instance of directed graph H, and we are asked if there is a Hamiltonian cycle in H. For each directed edge $e=(u,v) \in H$, we replace it by three colored directed edges: $(u,t_1)$, $(t_1,t_2)$, $(t_2,v)$, with color red, white and blue, respectively. We call such colored graph $H'$. We claim that there is a Hamiltonian cycle in $H$ iff there is an AMERICAN-HAM-CYCLE in $H'$.

$\Leftarrow$: Say there is an AMERICAN-HAM-CYCLE in $H'$. Let $v$ be any vertex in $H \cap H'$ on the AMERICAN-HAM-CYCLE. We can see that since all edges are directed and the color pattern is fixed on every directed edges in $H$, we can uniquely start walking from $v$ and reach every other vertices in $H$ following the cycle. Such walk in H visit every vertex exactly once, hence Hamiltonian.

$\Rightarrow$: Say there is a Hamiltonian cycle $v_1\rightarrow v_2 \rightarrow \cdots \rightarrow v_n \rightarrow v_1$ in $H$. We can walk through $H'$ in the same order as the cycle. It is obvious that this cycle is also an AMERICAN-HAM-CYCLE in $H'$.

Since adding colored edges can be completed in $O(m)$ where $m$ is the number of edges in $G$, it turns out that the reduction is polynomial time.

Therefore, we conclude that the AMERICAN-HAM-CYCLE problem is NP-Complete.